Executive Summary 

Globally and historically, women have found themselves under continued pressure from gender and economic biased-policies. Forced to give up on ancestral traditions, our daughters have no access to wisdom contained in oral cultures.

We believe all efforts to revert this trend are valid and should be implemented. Specifically, we propose to deliver the first gamified Operating System designed for empowerment and articulation of young girls focused on the care of their nature, bodies and spirits. 

Technically, HOPE/Esperanza will be distributed as a tangible product and will be the result of blending a stable libre image into a first-person narrative game that enlightens young girls on in the discovery and appropriation of both ancestral and modern knowledge in order to restore and keep balance on Earth.


Team Purpose

We are a research and development team that loves open data and software libre. From day 1 of Alpha-testing, HOPE plans to deliver a lovely circular experience to girls-users, storytellers and developers thanks to the use of recycled technologies, an impeccable art direction and a very motivated and resilient Product Designer and Project Leader.


Team Structure

HOPE s be achieved with a base team of 25 individuals, the HOPE Alpha Team; Composed of globally distributed storytellers, designers, specialized educators, developers, testers and QAs with lots of experience and talent, Alpha Team members list is the result of years of relationships during design, development and deployment of several technological solutions for the Public Education Ecosystems in the Americas.

Lead and articulated by the Project Leader, Budget considers that Alpha team members will be secured for the six years of the main project, with a bonus of double salary at year six. As the project's time line progresses, additional services from third parties, will be contracted. HOPE Alpha Team will create, track and assign issues in a team culture of transparency and over communication, securing sustainability and scalability of the solution.   

Our team aims to provide a unique feminine-ludic experience supported by sustainable design and social technology. This means that main functionalities for users to explore, translate into a continuous improvement cycle supported by the design of the product itself. 

*We deliver solutions assembling dream teams according to each project specific requirements. We have done it before and we love to do it.*

Leading the team, a creative engineer, loving mother, active citizen and the founder of Sustainable Systems, a company created to coordinate the implementation of sustainable projects and product's around the globe.


Why girls?

Society has a large debt with girls and general women development. It is sad to see how the large majority of women are totally disconnected from their real feminine nature and from the logic of living cycles.

It is a fact that currently in both developed and undeveloped countries, there is a strong need for quality-mentorship of girls and young women regarding the appropriation of technology as the key factor to become global sustainable citizens.

For many decades, machis, ñustas, and other healer grandmothers have lost connection with their daughters and granddaughters, as public education systems have not account for the importance of transferring their knowledge to the families and the communities. Much ancestral knowledge is about to get lost unused.

HOPE shall revert this trend, by taking young girls (and their sisters, mothers and grandmothers) into a challenging and magical quest of collaboration through the many paths towards a more peaceful and verdant planet.

*We believe collaboration and knowledge exchange among communities are key strategies for the evolution of humans and their relationship with Earth, data flows and machines.*


The Solution 

HOPE will be the first operational system to connect users with a peer's collaborative network with the objective of reaching global consensus as it becomes a reference in open-sustainable-technology.

The use of HOPE gives users access to a large repository specifically curated for girls to discover how their female nature has the potential to flourish when working in collaboration with peers. The network will become an organic and neutral communication space for young girls and their families.

HOPE will be much more than a gamified O.S. for girls, it aims to be a strong voice for the movement of women working united for sustainable peace. 

The OS

The task of building an entire Operating System is monumental and beyond the scope of this project. Instead we will have the opportunity to focus on the most important part which is the User Experience, by building atop of the time tested GNU/Linux standard software stack.

The Game

We will attempt to break (but retain compatibility) with the Desktop / File System metaphor, by offering a gamified environment focused on simplifying and promoting common workflows and offering context to reflect on previous work.

The Network

Drawing inspiration from online project collaboration platforms and the technology of massive multi-player online role-playing games (MMORPGs), HOPE shall offer the users access to a safe environment for sharing projects and caring about each other. A code of conduct shall apply to all interactions in the Network.

The Stack and copyrights

We have selected the technology stack which is flexible at this point. All work shall be contributed to upstream projects where applicable and managed as independent reusable modules which will be released as Free and Open Source Software for the widest possible distribution and maintainability.


TIMELINE

Year 1 	
Team conformation
Infrastructure set up
Functional Design Guides
Graphic Design Guides
Definition of testing pilots 

Year 2 	
Pre-Alpha HOPE Image production
Technical Documentation 	
Pre-Alpha testing 3 pilots 

Year 3
Alpha HOPE image production 	  	
Alpha testing 6 pilots 

Year 4
Alpha HOPE image debugging

Year 5 	  	 
Pre-Beta HOPE image production 	  	 

Year 6
Beta HOPE image production
Wide distribution


EVIDENCE OF EFFECTIVENESS



The Centre for Educational Research and Innovation (CERI)'s Governing Complex Education Systems (GCES) project focuses on which models of governance are effective in complex education systems and which knowledge systems are needed to support them. The GCES project has identified three themes vital for effective governance and successful reform: accountability, capacity building and strategic thinking.

During the use of HOPE, users experience a unique identity within the system plus an increasing and personalized functionality pack while testing new models for decision-making process and needs. The system also provides a fecund field for the development of long term plans and set of common goals.

So far, we have reached 39,000 users from Public Schools with the first version of the networked operational system deployed on field on early 2014. We have achieved fluent dialogues, more than 1.000 contexts creation, and many, many ideas exchanged.

No manuals nor instructions about the network use were distributed. All results are a consequence of children's exposure to the network during school time, and they reflect how intuitive for sharing content children are.


RISK ASSESSMENT

Due to the technical strategy of using a free-libre software image to implement the solution risks are minimal during development. The source code is hosted on public services redundantly enabling collaboration of external agents. 

The artistic design work is well advanced as the game that is part of the experience has been documented and has passed several proofs of concept. Securing a place for the code camps and the construction of productive gardens, will not only help us guaranty happiness and security for the team members and their families, but also it would become the place for eager learners to experience the tangible results of the HOPE movement.

Just as the basic software and designs, all works to be included must have an appropriate license as those developed  by Creative Commons licenses and the public domain.

EVALUATION

Monitoring and evaluating are key elements to be able to deliver a solid Beta version., that will continue to improve as the system semi-automatically report bugs and requests for improvement from users. 

We will create and articulate teams of testers and supporters around the world. Transversal content for sustainable feminine living will be included at first stage. Valid communication skills and metrics will be 24/7 monitored as many of the game mechanics are designed to secure building a proactive dialogue around valuable contexts.

We will be successful if we get young women to learn how to make better decisions as a collective.

 
ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY

Like a living organism, our organizational strategy has worked along the years by adapting to the "system" evolution and of course never stop contributing to governmental development.

As a research and development team, we know we need to introduce the concept of "purpose" into all technological interventions where we participate. This purpose can then get translated -by design- into a set of relevant indicators that will reflect the " health" of the system at any time. "Healthy trends" can easily get identified and systematized into local and regional education policies.

The production of HOPE requires strategic relationships with free software communities. Also a research and development partnership will be offered to Private and Public Laboratories involved with healthy water, permaculture, bioconstruction, open hardware, agrobots and other game-related subjects.

The expansion of HOPE considers strategic relationships with indigenous leaders, científics, global ministries of Education, ONG's and any other relevant females empowering organization.


PREVIOUS PERFORMANCE

We have tested Hexoquinasa, an operational system image with the same basic characteristics proposed for HOPE.

Because we had the blessings from all directions, back on 2011 a team of international collaborators, developers, translators and enthusiastic citizens  identified the need and started the work of what is known today as Hexoquinasa.

It has been a journey of love and passion for those involved in the team. 

It is important to empathize that the effective deliver of HOPE requires an empowered leader to be able to move quick and assertively.


BUDGET NARRATIVE

We have projected the Budget with the following logic; for six years we will use all resources available to deliver the best socio-technological experience we can for young girls. The objective is to deeply engage with the first harvest of girls-users who will become active replicators for the brand to expand globally and organically.

In order to achieve high quality for the codes and the arts, we require to secure and over compensate a team of very talented individuals, as well as get them adequately equipped for their specifics tasks to run as smoothly as possible. Alpha team shall gather together for one to two months/year for extreme design-development camps every year.

Other strategic lines of investment are:

01- Evaluation
02- Research and Development
03- Communication 

Once the solution has been implemented, the costs to sustain the benefits over time are minimal. A logical source of funding for those costs is the incorporation of a non profit association of users and developers.


Link video clip 01
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DqQ7KAYjNk





